[CLAIRE] Previously...
[RICHARD] We've come to arrest her
for the murder of Malva Christie.
Let them both be taken.
I will travel with them.
[MAN] Hang 'em!
[PEOPLE SHOUTING]
This isn't justice!
I want to spend my time
with you and Jemmy. The three of us.
All the four of us.
Really?
[GRUNTING. STRUGGLING]
- Jamie!
- Claire!
Where are you taking Jamie?
None of your concern.
What if I want to make preaching official?
I heard there's a Presbytery in Edenton.
We'll start packing tomorrow
and leave soon as we can.
Your husband is alive. Trust in God.
He will deliver the righteous
out of danger.
You think I'm righteous?
[TOM] I will not leave town.
[IMPERCEPTIBLE WHISPERING]
[CLAIRE SHUDDERING]
[SOBBING]
[SOBBING ECHOES]
[NECK SNAPS]
[YOUNG IAN] Uncle Jamie.
Uncle Jamie.
[JAMIE] I canna let
my darkest fears cripple me.
Blood of my blood. bone of my bone.
I gave you my spirit
till our life shall be done.
And that's why I ken you're alive still.
I'd feel it if you were gone.
You live. I ken it in my bones.
And I will find you.
[YOUNG IAN] Horses are watered.
Uncle Jamie.
John Quincy and the Cherokee are
away back to the Ridge to see that
all is well. just as you asked.
And you're right. we'll attract
less attention in town this way.
Uncle Jamie?
Let's go get my wife.
[WOMAN SINGING] ♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain and sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
[BED CREAKING]
[GASPS]
Sorry. I didn't mean to disturb you.
Think nothing of it.
- Did he give you money?
- Yes.
A bit.
Call the old besom and send for
some holland. why don't you.
Who?
Mrs. Tolliver.
Mrs. Tolliver!
[MRS. TOLLIVER] Really. Mrs. Ferguson.
You are the most dreadful nuisance.
I was just coming to pay my respects
to Mrs. Fraser in any case.
Mrs. Fraser. I am Mrs. Tolliver.
Mrs. Tolliver.
I'm to see to your welfare
and acquaint you with our custom.
You will receive one meal each day.
unless you wish
to send to the ordinary for more
at your own expense.
I will bring a basin for washing
once a day.
and you will carry your own slops.
Stuff your custom. Maisie.
She has some money.
Fetch us a bottle of geneva.
Then if you must.
you can tell her what's what.
A shilling. then.
You've missed supper.
but as you've just come.
I'll make an allowance
and bring you something.
Thank you. I'm famished.
None for me. thanks. Just the gin.
Please. could you get a word to my family?
That I cannot do. I'm sorry.
[MRS. FERGUSON] Fraser. she said.
You aren't the. uh...
[WHISPERING] ...murderess?
I don't want to talk about it.
As you like.
Welcome to your new home. then.
Used to be a slaughterhouse they say.
Seems about right.
It's grand here. it is.
Sit.
Sit. You must be bone-tired.
I'm Sadie. by the bye.
Claire.
You. uh. any good at cards. Claire?
Know a game called Brag?
Let me guess.
You're in here for cheating at cards.
Cheat? Sadie Ferguson? Not a bit of it.
Forgery.
[CHUCKLES SOFTLY]
[CLAIRE] All right. then.
But not for money.
Mm.
We'll play for beans then. shall we?
- [CLAIRE] How long have you been in here?
- A month. almost.
Twenty-nine days by last count.
You haven't had a trial yet?
No. praise God.
[WOMAN] Haven't been anybody tried
in the last two months.
Maisie says the court's shut down.
All the justices gone into hiding.
[CLAIRE] So here. too. then.
I wouldn't be in a hurry. dearie.
If they've not tried you.
they can't hang you.
But I am innocent.
'Course you are. You stick to it.
Don't let 'em bully you
into admitting anything.
I won't.
I don't want to languish in jail either.
Those courts aren't open now...
One who should worry about hanging
is the sheriff.
What I hear.
a mob's liable to come here
and string him up.
[WOMAN] There's unrest in the streets.
The rebels have made it hell
for any loyal subject.
What ails you. mistress?
[CLAIRE] I could not tell her what it was.
Could not say that I knew
just how long this war would last.
that the courts would likely remain closed
for years to come.
and we would languish here without rescue.
Feels like I'm throwing you to the wolves.
I think they're more
commonly known as "wives."
Same difference.
Are you gonna be okay
with Reverend McMillan?
Surely I can handle ministering
to a few soldiers.
I'm a veteran myself now...
Sort of.
And I'm tough.
I had my wayward youth...
Smoking.
- Drinking beer.
- Wow.
- Stealing sweeties from the post office.
- [GASPS]
Quite the wee criminal for a while.
The terror of Inverness.
[ROGER] Son of a preacher man.
Still. I think Reverend McMillan
wants to test my mettle.
Make sure I'm not too focused on the lofty
intellectual parts of my studies.
What is it?
There's something
written all over your face.
What do you even say to a preacher?
Break a leg doesn't seem right.
- God luck?
- [CHUCKLES]
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
Good day to you both.
Thank you. Mistress MacKenzie.
for your willingness
to assist with the alms-giving.
Especially since you'll only be with us
for a few weeks.
Of course.
Are you ready. Mr. MacKenzie?
The soldiers we'll encounter today
are mustering to go north.
Now. it's not for us to judge
which side they've chosen to fight for.
But know that they will be in need
of much prayer and supplication.
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
Good day. young one.
Could we offer you some comfort
through the word of God?
The future Reverend MacKenzie
was at the Battle of Alamance.
Doing what. exactly?
Carrying the white flag of surrender?
[PRISONERS LAUGHING]
[PRISONER] Bible verse
ain't gonna help us.
Knowing how to wield a knife.
use our fists. maybe.
There's nothing
in your holy book about that.
What advice can these
devil-dodgers give us. eh?
[PRISONERS LAUGHING]
Float like a butterfly. sting like a bee.
And God will truly go with thee.
Ali.
- What did you just say?
- Muhammad Ali.
You're a traveler. aren't you? Like me.
Well. you gotta help me.
Who are you?
Wendigo Donner.
You were one of Lionel Brown's men.
- Claire Fraser told me...
- I didn't do nothing to her.
I was gonna help her get away.
Why would I hurt her?
She's like us. isn't she?
I was conscripted from jail
but I'm not a thief.
I just needed a gemstone
to get back to my own time.
I've still got it. but I'm stuck here.
I came to help the Indian Nations.
Well. Claire did tell me that.
The plan just got all screwed up.
Five of us made it
to the stones at Ocracoke
but we got split up when we went through.
I never saw them again.
I never even made it
to where I was supposed to go.
Look. I don't wanna hurt anybody.
I just wanna go home.
You get that. right?
Please.
Help me.
[MRS. TOLLIVER SNORING]
Sun's barely up
and look at the state of Tolly.
While we're here slaving away
at the arse-crack of dawn.
Well. she's breathing fine.
Though a glass of water wouldn't hurt.
I doubt she'd drink it
if there's no gin in it.
Open it.
Ye gods and little fishes.
Here we are. Margit. Who's this now?
Which is the healer?
That would be me.
What is she charged with?
Well. one of 'em's a forger.
a few of 'em are thieves
and one is a murderess.
Fletcher. Ferguson. Something like that.
But as to which one being which...
You mean to say you don't know?
I'm paid to guard 'em.
not hobnob with 'em.
- I'm the murderess.
- Sadie.
Very well. Come with me.
Well. where are we going?
I'm afraid we're in a hurry. madam.
[CELL DOOR OPENS]
[JAMIE] Mr. Christie.
Glad to see you kept your word.
- Where's Claire?
- She's gone.
You were supposed to keep watch.
Guards wouldn't allow me here all night.
When I came back this morning.
it was too late.
I did everything in my power.
The sheriff assured me
they'd treat her with dignity.
[SIGHS]
They're saying that Auntie Claire
was taken.
- Was it that bastard Brown?
- No.
It was soldiers looking for a healer.
Where was she taken?
They couldna tell me.
Could not or would not?
Got any drink. have you. sir?
Or a few bob to pay for some?
[COUGHS]
Drop of something for my poor old throat.
Tell me what you know.
A shilling more and we'll make it
a wee dram or two. instead. shall we?
Nice lady. Did my best to help her.
If anything. you probably
ought to be thanking me.
If you truly want to help.
then tell me what you know. please.
She told 'em your wife was a forger
and tried to claim
the murder charge for herself.
Oh.
No pardon possible for forgery.
Capital crime.
But as for murder.
she probably thinks
she can plead the Good Book.
repent for her sins and get off scot-free.
Don't be daft.
You're living in fairy-world
if you think I'd get away with that.
I was trying to help her.
Enough. You better thank the Lord
that guard is watching. Now tell me.
where did they take my wife?
How the bleeding hell should I know?
It's Tolly you want to ask.
Mrs. Tolliver's the sheriff's wife.
[WOMAN SCOFFS] She was drunk as a lord
when those men came.
I'm not even sure
both of 'em were soldiers.
What did they look like?
How would I know?
They all look the same to me.
[CELL DOOR OPENS]
What's going on here?
Are you Mrs. Tolliver? I'm James Fraser.
I demand to know where my wife was taken.
All I know is. she was taken
on my husband's orders.
A matter of duty to the Crown.
Where is he? Your husband?
[CHUCKLES]
You think I'm privy to such information.
merely his wife?
He'd gone to quell some unrest.
Rebels passing through.
on their way to take Fort Johnston.
He's likely drinking
his own sorrows away by now.
Please go.
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
[KNOCK AT DOOR]
[WOMAN] Come in.
- Who the devil is this?
- Healer. ma'am.
Midwife. Mistress Fraser.
I'm told there's not a single midwife
to be found in the entire county.
Where did you find her.
the workhouse? Or the local jail?
Jail. actually.
But since the ship's surgeon is apparently
in Fort Johnston tending soldiers.
I'm afraid you're stuck with me.
God. we're not that desperate yet. are we?
Plucked from a jail.
Imagine.
a governor driven out of his palace
and forced to flee for his life.
My husband hunted
by mobs of his own citizens.
And marooned on this blasted ship
when everything's going to hell.
I'm sorry we're not meeting
under better circumstances.
But since your husband did send for me.
may I examine you?
I can help. I promise.
Have you been experiencing
any cramping? Bleeding?
- Intermittent pain in your back?
- No.
And how long have you been ill?
[SIGHS]
I've been vomiting all night
and sweated through the sheets.
[EXCLAIMS IN DISGUST]
I look positively ghastly.
Perhaps I'll take one of my tonics.
Are you taking all of these tonics
at once. Mrs. Martin?
One at breakfast. another after lunch.
and when the fever comes on.
I use the East Indian chaulmoogra.
[CLAIRE] Perhaps we can find you
something more suitable.
What if it's the ague?
It's not.
Shouldn't you be letting my blood?
There's a fleam and bowl over there.
Unless...
Oh. God. Is it true? Are you the one who...
who murdered
her husband's pregnant mistress
and cut the baby from her womb?
It was you. wasn't it?
She was not his mistress.
And I didn't kill her.
- As for the rest...
- My husband doesn't know. does he?
I doubt it.
How did you hear?
Oh. you're quite notorious.
The talk of the town.
Of course.
my husband has no time for gossip
and has no memory for names as I do.
I've never known a murderess before.
- I'm not a murderess.
- Well. of course you'd say so.
You don't look depraved.
Though I must say.
you don't look quite respectable either.
This ginger tea will help with the nausea.
Not until you swear you won't hurt
my baby. You must swear it.
Mrs. Martin. of course.
Your husband brought me here
because I'm a healer.
Harming someone would be rather at
cross purposes with that. wouldn't it?
You need fluids
for your own sake. and for the baby.
Six children I've had
and I've lost three of them.
I'd rather die than lose another
and break my husband's heart.
He won't bear it.
You're in no danger of that.
I'd say you've eaten something that
strongly disagrees with you. That's all.
I am a mother. too.
Let's settle you into your cabin.
And I'll go ask your husband
to send some different medicine.
Thank you.
I won't say anything about
the charge. if you don't.
Right. I'll see you later. then.
Bye.
Whoa. what's all this?
There's enough food in here
to last three days.
- Are you leaving me?
- [CHUCKLES]
It's nothing. Snacks.
And a farrier's hammer?
You're going
to hand out theological pamphlets.
I didn't realize shoeing horses
was part of the job description.
Ministering to the animals now as well?
That's for Wendigo Donner. isn't it?
Are you gonna help him escape?
Roger. what are you gonna do?
Single-handedly bust him out of the army?
[SHUSHES]
You're not Steve McQueen
in The Great Escape.
You're studying to be a minister.
I know that. I just...
I thought maybe I would put in
a good word for him with the officers
or something.
After what he did?
According to Claire.
he didn't do anything.
Right.
He just stood by and did nothing
while my mother was brutally attacked.
And then he ran and hid like a coward.
What could he have done
without getting killed?
You didn't see him. Bree.
He's desperate. scared.
He just wants to go home.
He came back to help his fellow Indians
and everything went to shit.
He was just trying to survive.
When I came through the stones.
I ended up on Bonnet's crew.
I did what I had to.
And I would've done anything to find you.
- Anything.
- No.
No. You would never ever
stand by and watch a woman be hurt.
not like those men did in that tavern
that night when I came back.
and not like Wendigo did with Mama.
I watched Bonnet
throw a child overboard on that ship
and her mother jump in after her.
And though I was desperate
to intervene. I was frozen.
I wanted to save them but I couldn't.
I had to fight every instinct in me.
because I had to stay alive to find you.
[SIGHS]
I was outnumbered.
Bonnet and his crew would have killed me.
And it was the same for Wendigo.
So how can I condemn him.
as a man or as a minister?
- Yeah. Roger...
- Bree.
[GOVERNOR MARTIN] Get ready.
Lieutenant Tate.
Catch a steady wind.
go up the Cape Fear a bit.
send raiding parties to shore.
and take back Fort Johnston.
With respect. Your Excellency.
if I may speak frankly.
you can't mean
to try and attack in this fog?
This is hardly the ship for it.
And the Captain...
We have to do something. Tate.
Do you have any idea
what fate awaits me
if I lose this wretched colony?
The Redcoats will hang me
before the goddamned rebels do.
[LIEUTENANT TATE]
We should have news imminently.
But the rebels are far more numerous
and better-armed than expected.
And if they are
holding Fort Johnston. sir.
for your own sake
and the sake of your family.
perhaps you might consider sailing north.
Forgive me.
But surely your place is here.
Governor Martin.
And yours. madam.
is in the surgeon's cabin.
tending to my wife.
Well. her condition is much improved.
I wanted to ask if I could
go fetch some additional supplies
in Wilmington for her.
Leave the ship?
Do you have any idea what it took
to bring you here? Absolutely not.
But your wife's continued good health
may depend on it.
- [BELL DINGS]
- [MAN] Ahoy there.
[MAJOR MACDONALD] We're coming aboard.
in the name of King George's Army.
Please. Your Excellency. I just need
to get some extra supplies.
Make a list and we'll send a messenger
to collect what you need
before we set sail. Be quick about it.
I don't imagine we'll be in these waters
much longer.
But when can I expect to return to shore?
It can't have escaped your notice
that my wife is with child.
She'll require your assistance.
You'll remain on the ship
for the duration of our voyage.
Consider it your patriotic duty.
Lieutenant Tate will
convey your letter to shore at once.
What news. Major MacDonald?
We've lost Fort Johnston. sir.
It's certain. then?
Fancy meeting you here.
You know her?
- We've met.
- We most certainly have.
- Although last I heard. you were...
- Fully intent on proving my innocence.
Thank you. Major.
Well. before you two become reacquainted.
once you've given your letter.
could you fetch me something
to ease the griping in my stomach?
Splash of brandy in it couldn't hurt.
Redcoats. In the whorehouse. We might
be able to get something out of them.
Aye. They might know where the sheriff is.
Or where he's taken Auntie Claire.
[MAJOR MACDONALD] We can rally loyalists.
find more troops.
Your servant. madam.
I couldn't believe it when I heard
you'd been arrested for murder.
That the girl's father
accompanied you to Wilmington
with the wish of seeing you hanged.
He only wished to ensure
that I received a fair trial.
Of course.
If you're here in such
illustrious company.
then I'm sure that all must be in order.
I assume this means that
your husband has seen sense
and finally declared himself
for the Crown. Mrs. Fraser?
You doubt this man's allegiance. Major?
Well. it's only that I assumed
since the good lady's husband
resigned from his position as Indian Agent
among other things. that they. uh...
[CHUCKLES]
- How to put this politely...
- Your husband is James Fraser?
Of Fraser's Ridge?
Yes. Yes. he is.
[MAJOR MACDONALD] I do. of course.
very much hope that we can
count on Mr. Fraser's support
in our endeavors
but there is some doubt. certainly.
as to the Frasers' integrity as you can...
How dare you.
Could you excuse us. Major?
Certainly. Your Excellency.
Manipulative bastard.
- [LIEUTENANT TATE] Mr. Thomas Christie?
- Yes?
A Mistress Claire Fraser requires your
immediate and most urgent assistance.
She has assured us that
you are the man best able to help.
But we require your utmost discretion.
You can procure
the necessary items. Mr. Christie?
Items?
Yes. Of course. of course. yes.
For her patient aboard HMS Cruizer.
I am very happy to be of service
both to Mistress Fraser
and to the Crown.
You will see that she has enclosed
a list of what is needed.
Please bring everything to the harbor
at your earliest convenience.
The ship is in the harbor?
No. sir. But I will wait for you there
and convey whatever you bring. by boat.
back to the ship. But please hurry.
The Cruizer
will not be at anchor for long.
"Vir Meus."
Sheriff Tolliver orchestrated
my being here. so I assumed
you knew what my charge was
and were turning a blind eye.
Mistress Martin certainly did.
There is the insignificant matter
of trying to govern a royal colony
from a goddamned floating dungeon
that's occupying my time.
The crew told me you're a healer
coming from the jail.
I had neither the time nor inclination
to ask for any of the unsavory details.
Exactly my point.
You didn't care what I'd done
when you sent for me.
You needed my help. and I gave it.
But a murderess. it's unthinkable.
I swear to you. I'm innocent.
I found the young woman in question
already dead.
But she was with child...
God in Heaven. It gets worse.
My poor wife. does she know about
this sorry tale?
You don't understand.
I did what I could
to save that unborn child.
And I'll do everything I can
for your wife and your baby.
Your wife told me
that you'd both suffered terrible losses.
I know what it's like to lose a child.
There is no greater pain.
It's unspeakable.
My three beautiful boys.
Sam. my youngest.
Sometimes I think
I glimpse him running past.
He was only eight years old.
I'm so sorry.
Yes. perhaps you should be.
You and your husband both.
Because the only thing more painful
than losing my sons is knowing
that my three daughters
will grow up in a world without them.
Without the men they would have become.
Men who would've protected them
from those who choose
violence and bloodshed.
chaos and anarchy over law and order.
those who would betray their nation
and choose war.
But surely no one enters war willingly.
no matter one's personal convictions.
And what exactly are you and your
husband's convictions. Mistress Fraser?
To be charged with murder is one thing.
but to be suspected of treason
is quite another.
That was disappointing. Maybe we'll have
better luck at the Old Bell.
Mr. Fraser.
- What is it now?
- I know where Mistress Fraser is.
Read it.
She's on a ship. The Cruizer.
She wants you to go to her.
Vir meus. My husband.
She wants you.
- Lieutenant Tate.
- Back down below. madam.
Just need extra blankets for Mrs. Martin.
[BELL DINGS]
Boat ahoy!
- Do you wish to come aboard. sir?
- Aye. I do.
By whose authority?
I am a former Indian Agent
in the governor's employ
and an acquaintance
of Lord John Grey.
Sassenach.
[LIEUTENANT TATE] Excuse me.
This is not permitted.
I wish to speak with the governor.
I'm James Fraser of Fraser's Ridge.
I've come for my wife.
I humbly ask that you allow me
to take her home.
I regret to inform you. sir.
that your wife is a prisoner of the Crown.
Perhaps you were aware.
It is true. is it not. that you have
declared martial law
over the colony of North Carolina?
It is.
Then you alone have control
over the custody of any prisoners.
My wife is in your custody.
You have the power to release her.
The crime of which your wife
stands accused is most heinous.
There is no merit to that.
Surely. having made her acquaintance.
you'd have drawn conclusions
as to her character?
What conclusions should I draw
as to your character?
Lord John Grey assured me
you were a man to be counted upon.
- But Major MacDonald...
- Major MacDonald?
My resignation as Indian Agent?
Surely that is all behind us.
Your unwillingness to elaborate further
on the matter speaks volumes. sir.
I understand
Your Excellency's reservations.
Perhaps some surety may be offered.
You have the impertinence
to try and bribe me?
That was not my intent. sir.
What I offer is a bond
against my wife's appearance in court.
No. sir. I will not accept a bond
for your wife.
I should hang the two of you.
Have you swinging from the yardarm.
Your Excellency. please.
I'm a reasonable man.
I will offer you a proposition.
Return to the backcountry
and gather such men as you can.
Then report to Major MacDonald
and commit your troops to his campaign.
When I receive word from him
that you have. say. 200 men.
then. sir. I will release
your wife to you.
Very well.
Be still. a nighean.
Do not despair. I will see you
when the morning comes.
[CHILDREN CHATTERING]
[ROGER] Excuse me. miss.
Do you have a moment
to talk about someone who
loves you very much?
I don't have time to talk
about God today. Thanks anyway.
I was talking about your husband.
You have any time for him?
Always.
But he's been kind of busy
ministering to some soldiers.
He's going to be ordained himself.
you see.
- Oh.
- Mm.
And how is that going for him?
You'll be pleased to know that he hasn't
helped a certain conscript escape.
[SIGHS]
But I do want
to do something for him. Bree.
You listen to your instincts.
I have to listen to mine.
So I'm going to help Wendigo
by praying for him.
Go on. then.
Do it now if it'll make you feel better.
Lord. it is said that. "God helps those
who help themselves."
I always found that confusing.
Like those who help themselves
to the last slice of cake or...
Lord. please help Wendigo Donner.
Or at least. help him to help himself.
You're going to be a great minister.
You'll never be able
to recruit enough men.
I willna be recruiting men.
But I am going back to that ship.
What will you do. Uncle?
Whatever I must.
You should go back to the Ridge.
Dinna want you involved.
- What do you mean?
- [TOM] Fraser.
Tom. Is that a whisky in your hand?
I have wrestled with my demons.
But it's you.
It's always you.
You are the answer to my prayer.
How much have you had to drink?
You must help me.
I beg you. There is something I must do.
Some air to clear your head.
You're not accustomed to it.
Whisky's addled your wits.
Over the years. I've watched men
come to you and ask for your help.
You never turn them away.
Will you refuse me now?
Let me go to the Cruizer.
Let me tell the governor what I have done.
Let me look Mistress Fraser in the eye
one last time and confess.
On our wedding day.
I swore to Claire she'd have
the protection of my name. my clan.
my family.
and the protection of my body as well.
I will honor that promise.
I dinna need your help.
I believe
that in letting me go to her.
you will honor that promise just the same.
just as you've honored the promises made
to those of us who were at Ardsmuir.
I have no name
that carries any weight in this world.
A broken family.
No clan of my own.
Allow me to do this.
I can say nothing to dissuade you?
No.
[BELL DINGING]
Send Claire back to me.
That blackened day.
Mistress Fraser told us
what she would have said
about Malva at her funeral.
I won't have a eulogy. and I don't know
what sort of burial awaits me.
but I do wonder what you
might have said about me.
- Tom...
- Please.
I'd say that Thomas Christie
was an honorable Scot.
A leader of men
in his own way.
Though he didn't
ken quite where to lead them.
Was stubborn as a damn mule.
But despite our differences.
a man I respected.
And whose respect I hope I had in return.
[BELL DINGS]
[LIEUTENANT TATE] Boat ahoy!
[CLAIRE] Jamie said he was coming back.
You will see him presently.
He awaits you in Wilmington.
What the hell is going on?
I've come to confess
to the murder of my daughter.
No. No. you couldn't have.
[CHUCKLES]
Still contrary. I see.
- Are you insane?
- It's the truth.
I will swear to it by the Holy Scriptures.
I...
[SIGHS]
I don't understand.
Do you remember once
you asked me if I thought you a witch?
You said you didn't think I was one.
No. But I have known them.
The girl was one. So was her mother.
"The girl" was your daughter. Malva.
No daughter of mine.
- Mr. Christie...
- She was my brother's.
Edgar.
When the Rising came.
I declared for the Stuarts.
He would have none of it.
saying it was folly.
He begged me not to go.
I asked him to look after my wife
and wee Allan. And he did.
He certainly did.
I see.
It wasn't his fault.
Mona was a witch. an enchantress.
And he succumbed to her.
I see you don't believe me.
but it is the truth.
More than once I caught her at it.
working her charms
and staring at the stars. her hair
flying loose. mad in the wind.
She had hair like mine. didn't she?
Leave it.
I tried to save her by prayer.
by God's grace. I could not.
She was eventually hanged
for the murder of my brother.
So you sent for Allan and Malva.
By the time she came to me.
Malva already had it.
The same slyness. the charm.
the same darkness of soul as her mother.
I tried to keep her
from working her wiles upon men.
It was the curse of Lilith
that they had. both of them.
She was with child.
I do not think it wrong to prevent
yet another witch from entering the world.
You know she tried to kill you?
You and me both.
You can't be certain of that.
It was you who told me we suffered
with the same illness at the Ridge.
You told her about
the invisible things. The germs.
She confessed when I caught her
with the Sin-eater's bones.
She'd made a broth to poison us with.
The love charm.
[SIGHS] She wanted Jamie.
She lusted after wealth.
position.
Or what she saw as freedom.
Do you know who the baby's father
really was?
I could not let her destroy so many lives
for she was a witch. Make no mistake.
She would have killed someone
before she finished.
So you decided to bear that cross for her.
She was not born of my loins
and yet. she was my daughter.
My blood. I am responsible.
I don't believe you. Tom.
[SIGHS]
I have waited all my life
in search of... No.
In hope of a thing I could not name.
but I knew must exist.
I was convinced it was God I sought.
But the love of God alone
could not sustain me.
No.
Now I know that I...
I love you.
Here. now...
I have written down my confession.
I have sworn that I killed my daughter
for the shame she had brought on me
by her wantonness.
No.
I have written another copy of this
and have already left it
with the newspaper in Wilmington.
They will publish it and you will go free.
I have yearned
always for love given and returned.
I've spent my life
in the attempt to give my love
to those who are not worthy of it.
Allow me this.
To give my life
for the sake of one who is.
Your life has value.
You can't throw it away like this.
I know that.
If I did not. then this would not matter.
Go to your husband.
- There must be something we can do...
- Lieutenant Tate.
I'm ready now.
[BREATH TREMBLING]
Did you make Tom confess?
No.
No. He told me what he intended to do
and I told him bide.
I did tell him I'd have another go
at trying to get you back.
but he insisted.
So you don't think he did it. either.
He said he stayed silent
while there's any chance
of you being tried and acquitted. but...
[GRUNTS]
...had you ever been in any urgent danger.
he'd have spoken up at once.
That's why he insisted on
coming wi' us to Wilmington.
But that doesn't make any sense.
Why didn't he speak up in front of Brown?
I'd wondered if it was Brown
who killed Malva himself. but...
Looking for revenge.
Maybe.
I just can't believe it was Tom. Tell me
he didn't make that confession for me.
He loves you.
It's plain to see. Sassenach.
I'd have done the same.
Counted my life well lost
if it saved you.
But how can I let him
sacrifice himself for me?
They're going to hang him. Jamie.
If he feels the same as me.
then you've done no wrong to him.
to take your life from his hand.
It's what he wanted.
Rest now. mo chridhe.
[DOOR OPENS. CLOSES]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER IN DISTANCE]
[CORK SQUEAKS]
- [GLASS CLINKS]
- [LIQUID POURING]
[JAMIE] I saw your horse.
I'd know him anywhere.
I stared at his arse for 200 miles.
So?
You didn't fancy a trip
back to bonnie Scotland then. eh?
Mr. Fraser?
No.
No. thank you.
I prefer to wait until after.
[SCOFFS]
After?
Come. now.
You harm a hair on my head.
you know my kin will hunt you down.
kill everyone you hold dear.
I've spared them the trouble.
By now. my nephew.
the Indian you tormented.
will be paying your men a wee visit.
His Cherokee acquaintances
will be giving him a helping hand. too.
We'll have no more trouble from them.
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
You're a good man.
A moral man.
I'm also a violent man.
Any goodness that prevails in me
is because of my wife.
You tried to take her from me.
You won't kill me.
Not in cold blood.
You wouldn't dare.
Make your peace with the Lord if you must.
Mr. Brown.